README.md, before:

# Simple Printing Kiosk

A simple way to host a print webapp for a home or small business. Easier than configuring printers on ever-changing computers and simpler for guests to use too. 

<img src="screenshot.png">

## How it works

When a file is uploaded, the server calls the configured command on the path of the uploaded file (default command is `lp`, which adds the file to the CUPS queue)


## Limitations

At this time, this has only been tested with one printer and on Linux and OS X. I have no idea how it would work on Windows, BSD, etc.


## Prerequisites
 
 * Connect a printer to your server of choice
 * Install cups, such as: `sudo apt install cups`
 * Install requirements and perform the first run:

```
cd simple_print_server/
python3 -m venv ./venv/
source ./venv/bin/activate
pip install -r requirements.txt
python3 ./firstrun.py
```


## Manual deployment

```
cd simple_print_server/
source ./venv/bin/activate
python3 ./run.py &
disown -h %
```


## Configuration

In order to make the service visible on the network, you may need to do one of the following:

 * Change `app.run()` to `app.run('host=0.0.0.0')` in `run.py`
 * Do something else to forward the local port  


## Deployment as a systemd service

TODO

Commit message:

1) Added Docker file and config to create and deploy printing kiosk in a Docker container; the database and upload folder are mapped to the host volume 2) Incorporating first run script into the main script 3) Generating Flask secret key on the fly 4) Using nginx to expose CUPS web interface from the Docker container (currently, the printer must be configured through the CUPS web interface, in order to run the printing kiosk)

README.md, after:

# Simple Printing Kiosk

A simple way to host a print webapp for a home or small business. Easier than configuring printers on ever-changing computers and simpler for guests to use too. 

<img src="screenshot.png">

## How it works

When a file is uploaded, the server calls the configured command on the path of the uploaded file (default command is `lp`, which adds the file to the CUPS queue)


## Limitations

At this time, this has only been tested with one printer and on Linux and OS X. I have no idea how it would work on Windows, BSD, etc.


## Prerequisites
 
 * Connect a printer to your server of choice
 * Install cups, such as: `sudo apt install cups`
 * Install requirements:

```
cd simple_print_server/
python3 -m venv ./venv/
source ./venv/bin/activate
pip install -r requirements.txt
```


## Manual deployment

```
cd simple_print_server/
source ./venv/bin/activate
python3 ./run.py &
disown -h %
```


## Deployment in Docker

```
docker build -t printing-kiosk:latest .
docker-compose up -d
```

Use `http://127.0.0.1:1631` to configure your printer in CUPS.
